Sudbury is a very large place even though its only 160 000 population
Its a good place for mining and there's a smelter and there's a huge chimney and it's called the super stack. It's 50 feet higher than the empire state building - almost 1200 feet high!!! There is a science centre. The sudbury the speaker grew up in did not look like that. It used to be really bleak and it's grey even though the photo is colour. All the sulfur killed most of the vegetation. Backyard was disgusting. No vegetation. A century before it looked much better.They wanted to connect Atlantic to Pacific oceans. only way was by railroad since there were no cars or anything. They had to stop and collect water every so often. And they made a train station and around it, people started settling and that was the beginning. Used to have huge pines. Shortly later the people found minerals there and mining within a few short years overtook logging. For a while, there were no stacks - just a roastyard. It had a LOT of wood. Just burn the rock, and you'd get the minerals. Imagine 2 football fields side by side. Any trees near the loggers would be cut down for this mining thing. LOTS of rocks. Then they set the entire roastyard on fire, which had sulfur, which created acid rain, which is why there was no vegetation. It would burn for 24 hours a day, for over 2 months!!!!!!! So later they made stacks which pushed the smoke further away. 1933, 50 000 people lived in Sudbury, and everyone knew it as the nickel supply. But it was still a dump. people called it "the city that looks like the moon". And the lakes were filled with sulfur. Someone said they used to bring cows grazing. The speaker didnt believe him. But later he learned that Louie was right, and he thought "How did we let this happen?" So in 1970 there was someone in university that wanted to CHANGE it. so the mining companies built the super stack which would raise the sulfur much higher in the atmosphere, which worked for Sudbury but ruined thousands more lakes. someone figured out how to neutralise the acidity in the soil (limestone) and in a few months there was a green patch!!! Later a thousand miners were laid out, and so the professor said that they should re-hire them and make Sudbury more vegetated! There was a huge improvement - there was now a forest! There were birds and snakes and animals and stuff. It also made the homes worth more. It's still not perfect, but in one human generation they rebuilt an ecosystem. Some of the trees are almost *15 metres* in height. 
It was successful since they created a VISION of what a better sudbury would look like. A forest. He shared it with everyone. He empowered everyone which was important since almost everyone planted at least *1 tree*. 
This inspired other programs like reintroducing animals. Now there are community groups, collecting garbage, restoring fish, cleaning creeks, etc. Also, there's no smoke coming from the superstack - the mining companies worked so hard last year they *stopped using the super stack*! They started selling the sulfur. The stack itself is going to be taken down  next year. All the lakes have fish, and people actually want to MOVE to  sudbury! And now they're northern Ontario's tourist attraction!!! That would be unheard of 40 years ago considering they were a moonscape. In total, 15 million trees have been planted SO FAR! Every year another 250 000 trees are planted. Wow. 
Many animals left; others died - the eggs didn't hatch and then the old fish died, so there was nothing left.  The damaged area covered thousands of kilometres! It spread so far we don't know exactly. 
And the rocks are black because the smoke BURNED them - it's not natural
